doc/developer/schema/mixins.rst, before:

.. _mixins:

Mixins
======

Structures of data that are repeated in different content types or component descriptors may be defined as mixins. Such structures (like some address fields or a combobox with a standard set of values) would be defined once in a mixin and then the mixin would be called in
other schemas that require these fields. The mixin definition file must be placed in the folder ``site/mixins/[name]`` and named
``[name].xml``. For example, ``site/mixins/us-address/us-address.xml``.

.. literalinclude:: code/mixin.xml
    :language: xml

.. TIP::

  A mixin may optionally have its own specific icon. The icon can be assigned to the mixin by adding a PNG file with
  the same name, in the mixin folder, e.g. ``site/mixins/us-address/us-address.png``

Using a mixin
-------------

Below is an example of a simple content type that uses the ``us-address`` mixin (inline) and the ``menu-item`` mixin (x-data).  Notice that
the name of the mixin file is used and not the mixin's Display Name.

.. literalinclude:: code/content-type-with-mixin.xml
    :language: xml

inline
  When a mixin is added with the ``inline`` element, the inputs will be included with the content data. Inline mixins can be used in content
  types, component descriptors, and the site.xml file.

x-data
  Mixins can also be added with an ``x-data`` element in content types and the site.xml file. Be aware that any ``x-data`` inputs added to
  the site.xml file will be applied to all content types in the site.

Commit message:

Added docs for x-data, fixed docs for mixins (#93)

doc/developer/schema/mixins.rst, after:

.. _mixins:

Mixins
------

Structures of data that are repeated in different content types or component descriptors may be defined as mixins. Such structures (like some
address fields or a combobox with a standard set of values) would be defined once in a mixin and then the mixin would be applied in
other schemas that require these fields. The mixin definition file must be placed in the folder ``site/mixins/[name]`` and named
``[name].xml``. For example, ``site/mixins/us-address/us-address.xml``.

.. literalinclude:: code/mixin.xml
    :language: xml

.. TIP::

  A mixin may optionally have its own specific icon. The icon can be assigned to the mixin by adding a PNG file with
  the same name, in the mixin folder, e.g. ``site/mixins/us-address/us-address.png``

Using a mixin
`````````````

Below is an example of a simple content type that uses the ``us-address`` mixin. In this case fields defined in the mixin will be injected
into the form inside the content type schema and their values will be saved with content data.
Notice that the name of the mixin file is used and not the mixin's Display Name.

.. literalinclude:: code/content-type-with-mixin.xml
    :language: xml

.. TIP::

  Mixins can be used in content types, component descriptors, and the ``site.xml`` file.

.. TIP::

  If you need more flexibility to enable a mixin for specific content types without having to plug it in directly in each content type scheme,
  consider using :ref:`x-data` instead.
