doc/admin/contentstudio/content-form.rst, before:

.. _content_form:

Content Form
============

This panel appears on the left side of the page when content is created or edited. It is where the form appears in which content data is
entered. The structure and fields in the form are determined by the **content type** which is defined in the application code. The content
editor panel can be collapsed to give the page editor more room by clicking the arrow icon on the top right of the panel.

The top of the content form has the content type icon, the Display Name, and the content path name. The default icon can be replaced
with an image file by clicking on it. As the Display Name is entered, the path name will automatically be filled in with a URL-friendly
version. The path will not update automatically once the content has been published. This is to prevent accidental breaking of external
hard-coded links. The path name can always be changed manually. It is also possible for the Display Name to be generated automatically while
other fields in the form are filled in if the content type was set up that way in the application code.

.. image:: images/content-editor1.png

Next is a ribbon with buttons that correspond to different sections of the content form. All content will have buttons for the content type
name, **Settings**, and **Security**. All published contents will have an additional button **Schedule**.
Other items may be in the ribbon if x-data was added to the content type in the application code.
Clicking on an item in the ribbon will scroll the content editor to the corresponding section of the form.

.. image:: images/content-editor2.png

The content data section is next and the form fields will depend on how the content type was set up.

The **Settings** area is where the content's Language and Owner are set. The **Language** will be inherited from the parent content if it
was set there. The Owner will be the logged in user who created the content, but it could be changed if the current user has the right
permissions.

The **Schedule** area is where the period of time, during which a content is available online, can be modified.
This area is only displayed for published content.

The **Security** section is where the content's permissions are set. Content will inherit the permissions of the parent content when
created. Users, Groups and Roles are principals that can be added to the content. Clicking on any item here will expand it and show what
permissions the principal has. Read more about :ref:`content_security`.

Commit message:

Updated description and screenshots of the Content Wizard (#100)

doc/admin/contentstudio/content-form.rst, after:

.. _content_form:

Content Form
============

This panel appears on the left side of the page after content is created or while being edited. It is here the form appears in which content data is
entered. The structure and fields in the form are determined by the **content type** which is defined in the application code. The content
editor panel can be collapsed to give the page editor more room by clicking the arrow icon on the top right of the panel.

The top of the content form has the content type icon, the Display Name, and the content path name. The default icon can be replaced
with an image file by clicking on it. As the Display Name is entered, the path name will automatically be filled in with a URL-friendly
version. The path will not update automatically once the content has been published. This is to prevent accidental breaking of external
hard-coded links. The path name can always be changed manually. It is also possible for the Display Name to be generated automatically while
other fields in the form are filled in if the content type was set up that way in the application code.

.. image:: images/wizard-form-1.png

Underneath is a toolbar with clickable navigation steps that correspond to different sections of the content form.
The first one is always content type name, and the last ones are icons for the **Schedule** (only for published content), **Settings** and **Access** wizard steps.
In between, there might be :ref:`x-data` and :ref:`mixins` steps enabled for this content.
Clicking on an item in the toolbar will scroll the content form down to the corresponding section.

.. image:: images/wizard-form-2.png

Form fields in the content data section depend on how the content type was set up.

The **Schedule** section is where the period of time, during which a content is available online, can be modified.
This section is only displayed for published content.

The **Settings** section is where the content's Language and Owner are set. The **Language** will be inherited from the parent content if it
was set there. The Owner will be the logged in user who created the content, but it could be changed if the current user has the right
permissions.

The **Access** section is where the content's permissions are set. Content will inherit the permissions of the parent content when
created. Users, Groups and Roles are principals that can be added to the content. Clicking on any item here will expand it and show what
permissions the principal has. Read more about :ref:`content_security`.
