doc/tutorials/my-first-app/index.rst, before:

.. _my_first_app:

My First App
============
*This guide will lead you through the required steps to build the "Hello World" app for Enonic XP.*

In this tutorial, you will learn how to initialize new application projects and deploy them. We will create a simple website that displays a list of countries and cities with a Google map of each city. Upon completion, you will be familiar with content types, page and part components, page templates, regions, and the Content Studio app. You won't be writing any code - just copy/paste from the examples.

The screen-shots below show the final product of this tutorial.

.. NOTE::

  To complete this tutorial, you will need a local running installation
  (see :ref:`local_installation`) of Enonic XP and a text editor of your choice.
  All terminal actions assume you're using OSX or Linux.


.. toctree::
  :maxdepth: 1

  initialize-project
  build-and-deploy
  hello-world-site
  adding-countries
  country-part
  hello-region-page
  add-favorite-country
  page-templates
  country-list
  hello-geo-world
  create-cities
  configure-city-part
  go-online
  pro-tips
  next-steps

The screenshot below shows the Content Studio interface with content on the left and a site preview on the right.

.. image:: images/screenshot-preview.png

The image below is what a page of the site will look like when finished.

.. image:: images/screenshot-usa-cities.png

Commit message:

Split 'My First App' tutorial into three parts. Updated some of the tutorial text and images.

doc/tutorials/my-first-app/index.rst, after:

.. _my_first_app:

My First App
============
*This guide will lead you through the required steps to build the "Hello World" app for Enonic XP.*

This three-part tutorial will cover the basics of creating a website application for Enonic XP. You will learn how to initialize new
application projects and deploy them. We will create a simple website that displays a list of countries and cities with a Google map of each
city. Upon completion, you will be familiar with content types, page and part components, page templates, regions, and the Content Studio
app. You won't be writing any code - just copy/paste from the examples.

The screen-shots below show the final product of this tutorial.

.. NOTE::

  To complete this tutorial, you will need a local running installation
  (see :ref:`local_installation`) of Enonic XP and a text editor of your choice.
  All terminal actions assume you're using OSX or Linux.


.. toctree::
  :maxdepth: 1

  part-1
  part-2
  part-3

The screenshot below shows the Content Studio interface with content on the left and a site preview on the right.

.. image:: images/screenshot-preview.png

The image below is what a page of the site will look like when finished.

.. image:: images/screenshot-usa-cities.png
