doc/admintools/contentstudio/delete.rst, before:

.. _delete:

Delete
======

.. NOTE::
   This page is under construction. This information is likely incomplete and possibly inaccurate until this notice is removed.

Content is deleted through the **Delete item** dialogue. This dialogue can be accessed by the **Delete** button in the toolbar of both
browse view and edit view. It can also be opened from the context menu by right-clicking a content in the tree grid. The selected content is
listed along with its status: Online or Offline. If the content is a parent then the children content are listed and will also be deleted.
The Delete button shows the total number of items that will be removed. More than one content can be selected for deletion from the tree
grid in browse view.

**Offline** content is removed immediately. Content that is **online** will only be marked for deletion. Its status will change to **pending
delete** and its name will have a line through it. Content that is pending delete will still be visible outside the Content Studio and it
must be published before it is actually removed and taken offline.

.. image:: images/delete-item-dialogue.jpg

Commit message:

Update the content studio delete page.

doc/admintools/contentstudio/delete.rst, after:

.. _delete:

Delete
======

.. NOTE::
   This page is under construction. This information is likely incomplete and possibly inaccurate until this notice is removed.

Content is deleted through the **Delete item** dialogue. This dialogue can be accessed by the **Delete** button in the toolbar of both
browse view and edit view. It can also be opened from the context menu by right-clicking a content in the tree grid. The selected content is
listed along with its status: Online or Offline. If the content is a parent then the children content are listed and will also be deleted.
The Delete button shows the total number of items that will be removed. More than one content can be selected for deletion from the tree
grid in browse view.

**Offline** content is removed immediately. Content that is **online** can be removed immediately by checking the box labeled "Instantly
delete published items". If this box is not checked then the content will only be marked for deletion. Its status will change to **pending
delete** and its name will have a line through it. Content that is pending delete will still be visible outside the Content Studio and it
must be published before it is actually removed and taken offline.

.. image:: images/delete-item-dialogue.jpg

An extra layer of protection kicks in before a **site** content can be deleted. The "Confirm delete" dialogue appears to warn that this
action cannot be undone. A number must be entered before the deletion will occur.

.. image:: images/confirm-delete.jpg
