doc/admintools/contentstudio/page-editor.rst, before:

.. _page_editor:

Page Editor panel
=================

.. NOTE::
   This page is under construction. This information is likely incomplete and possibly inaccurate until this notice is removed.

The page editor is a modifiable preview of the content page. It is used in conjunction with the **inspect panel** to add, delete, and move
components around the page with drag and drop. When a content that has a supporting page template is created or edited, the page editor will
open on the right automatically. The page editor can be opened with the icon on the far right of the toolbar that looks like a computer
monitor.

.. image:: images/page-editor.jpg

Manually adding a page component
--------------------------------

The page editor will be closed when the type of content being edited does not have a supporting page template. Open it with the monitor icon
on the right of the toolbar. Use the dropdown selector to find the desired **page component** which will render a page. Use the **components
view** or the **inspect panel** to drag the desired components to the regions of the page.

Commit message:

Many additions to the content studio section. (cherry picked from commit eb1e2f9)

doc/admintools/contentstudio/page-editor.rst, after:

.. _page_editor:

Page Editor panel
=================

.. NOTE::
   This page is under construction. This information is likely incomplete and possibly inaccurate until this notice is removed.

The page editor is a modifiable preview of the content page that will open automatically when a content that has a supporting page template
is created or edited. It is used in conjunction with the :ref:`inspection_panel` to add, remove, and move components around the page with
drag and drop. The page editor can be closed and reopened with the icon on the far right of the toolbar that looks like a computer monitor.

A component can be selected in the page editor by clicking on it. This will highlight the selected component and show its configuration in
the inspect panel. Right-clicking a component will open a context menu with various actions that can be performed on the component. These
options may include **Select parent**, **Insert** another component, **Inspect** its configuration, **Reset** the component's configuration,
**Remove** the component, **Duplicate** it, and **Create fragment** from the component.

.. image:: images/page-editor.jpg

The page editor will be closed when the type of content being edited does not have a supporting page template. However, it can be opened and
a dropdown selector will appear which can be used add a **page component** to render a page. Read more about this in the
:ref:`page_templates` section.
