doc/index.rst, before:


Enonic XP |version| documentation
=================================

**Enonic XP is a unique and powerful application development stack - in a single runtime.**

Seriously fast, and scalable from a single server to large clusters - Enonic XP radically simplifies the application infrastructure required to deliver high performance mission critical applications and sites.

**We simply call it the Web Operating System**

.. image:: images/wos.jpg

* NoSQL storage - Distributed content repository built on top of Elasticsearch
* App Engine - Supports deployment of serverside Javascript and Java apps - using the popular `PurpleJS framework`_
* Powerful embedded Web Content Management - seamlessly blend applications and websites
* Runs on the powerful Java Virtual Machine - can be deployed on just about any infrastructure.

To get started - check out :ref:`getting_started_guide` or move on to the :ref:`tutorials`.
The more savvy will probably enjoy our :ref:`api_ref_guide`.

Enjoy! - *The Enonic Development Team*

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   getstarted/index
   tutorials/index
   developer/index
   operations/index
   admin/index
   reference/index

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Appendix

   appendix/release-notes/index
   appendix/upgrade/index
   appendix/faq
   appendix/glossary


.. tip:: The source code for this documentation is `available on GitHub`_ .

.. _available on GitHub: https://github.com/enonic/xp-doc
.. _PurpleJS framework: https://purplejs.io

Commit message:

#121 - Developer link in old doc.

doc/index.rst, after:

.. important:: The XP 7.0 documentation and lots of other updated articles, guides and templates are available in our `Developer Portal <https://developer.enonic.com>`_.

Enonic XP |version| documentation
=================================

**Enonic XP is a unique and powerful application development stack - in a single runtime.**

Seriously fast, and scalable from a single server to large clusters - Enonic XP radically simplifies the application infrastructure required to deliver high performance mission critical applications and sites.

**We simply call it the Web Operating System**

.. image:: images/wos.jpg

* NoSQL storage - Distributed content repository built on top of Elasticsearch
* App Engine - Supports deployment of serverside Javascript and Java apps - using the popular `PurpleJS framework`_
* Powerful embedded Web Content Management - seamlessly blend applications and websites
* Runs on the powerful Java Virtual Machine - can be deployed on just about any infrastructure.

To get started - check out :ref:`getting_started_guide` or move on to the :ref:`tutorials`.
The more savvy will probably enjoy our :ref:`api_ref_guide`.

Enjoy! - *The Enonic Development Team*

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   getstarted/index
   tutorials/index
   developer/index
   operations/index
   admin/index
   reference/index

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Appendix

   appendix/release-notes/index
   appendix/upgrade/index
   appendix/faq
   appendix/glossary


.. tip:: The source code for this documentation is `available on GitHub`_ .

.. _available on GitHub: https://github.com/enonic/xp-doc
.. _PurpleJS framework: https://purplejs.io
