doc/admintools/users/roles.rst, before:

.. _roles:

Roles
=====

.. NOTE::
   This page is under construction. This information is likely incomplete and possibly inaccurate until this notice is removed.

Roles grant certain permissions to the users that have them. New roles can be created by administrators. The built-in roles are listed and
described below.

Administrator
-------------

Users with the Administrator role have full access to all content and admin tools through the user interface.

Administration Console Login
----------------------------

Users with this role can log in to the administration console. These users will also require a role for each of the admin tools that the
users need access to.

Content Manager App
-------------------

This role allows users to access the Content Studio. Users can see content and sites, but cannot save changes or publish content.

Content Manager Administrator
-----------------------------

This role allows full access to the Content Studio admin tool, including saving edits and publishing content.

Users App
---------

This role allows view-only access to the Users admin tool.

Users Administrator
-------------------

This role allows full access to the Users admin tool, including create/edit/delete for userstores, users, roles, and groups.

Authenticated
-------------

Users automatically have this role when they are logged into the system in any way.

Everyone
--------

This is a special role that all users and site visitors have. Content with this role will be publicly available to any non-logged in visitor.

Commit message:

XP-4758 Documentation - Content Manager Expert & Site configs modification

doc/admintools/users/roles.rst, after:

.. _roles:

Roles
=====

.. NOTE::
   This page is under construction. This information is likely incomplete and possibly inaccurate until this notice is removed.

Roles grant certain permissions to the users that have them. New roles can be created by administrators. The built-in roles are listed and
described below.

Administrator
-------------

Users with the Administrator role have full access to all content and admin tools through the user interface.

Administration Console Login
----------------------------

Users with this role can log in to the administration console. These users will also require a role for each of the admin tools that the
users need access to.

Content Manager App
-------------------

This role allows users to access the Content Studio. Users can see content and sites, but cannot save changes or publish content.

Content Manager Expert
----------------------

This role allows access to advanced features in the Content Studio admin tool,
including seeing and editing the source code of HTML and text areas.

Content Manager Administrator
-----------------------------

This role allows full access to the Content Studio admin tool, including saving edits and publishing content.

Users App
---------

This role allows view-only access to the Users admin tool.

Users Administrator
-------------------

This role allows full access to the Users admin tool, including create/edit/delete for userstores, users, roles, and groups.

Authenticated
-------------

Users automatically have this role when they are logged into the system in any way.

Everyone
--------

This is a special role that all users and site visitors have. Content with this role will be publicly available to any non-logged in visitor.
