doc/developer/my-first-app/create-cities.rst, before:

Create Cities
=============

.. |cogicon| image:: images/icon-cog.png

Now let's make use of the new city content type and part component. First we need to add the "City list" part to the "Country" page template.

#. Edit the "Country" page template.
#. Open the context panel by clicking the cog button |cogicon| in the toolbar.
#. Click and drag a `Part` to the page region below the "country" part. (This may be a bit tricky because the "country" part is small.)
#. Select the "City list" part from the dropdown in the box. You may need to close the context panel to see it.
#. Save and close the tab.

Now we need to create a few City contents below a selected country. (Sample data is available in the table below.)

#. From the content pane, select a country content that you created earlier. It is important that the city content be created under the country.
#. Right-click on the country content and select "New". The "Create content" dialogue will open.
#. Now select "City" from the list of content types.
#. Fill in the city name and location; the population is optional. The location format must be comma separated latitude and longitude
   with decimals. Do not select a page template from the dropdown on the right.
#. Save draft.
#. Create several more city contents below each country content by repeating the previous steps. Sample data is provided in the table below.

+--------------------+----------------+------------------+-----------+
|Country             |City            |Lat,Long          |Population |
+====================+================+==================+===========+
|USA                 |San Francisco   |37.7833,-122.4167 |837,442    |
+                    +----------------+------------------+-----------+
|                    |Las Vegas       |36.1215,-115.1739 |603,488    |
+                    +----------------+------------------+-----------+
|                    |Washington D.C. |38.9047,-77.0164  |658,893    |
+--------------------+----------------+------------------+-----------+
|Norway              |Oslo            |59.9500,10.7500   |618,683    |
+                    +----------------+------------------+-----------+
|                    |Bergen          |60.3894,5.3300    |265,857    |
+                    +----------------+------------------+-----------+
|                    |Trondheim       |63.4297,10.3933   |178,021    |
+--------------------+----------------+------------------+-----------+
|Colombia            |Bogota          |4.5981,-74.0758   |7,000,000  |
+                    +----------------+------------------+-----------+
|                    |Medellin        |6.2308,-75.5906   |2,440,000  |
+                    +----------------+------------------+-----------+
|                    |Barranquilla    |10.9639,-74.7964  |1,885,500  |
+--------------------+----------------+------------------+-----------+


Each country page will now have a list of the cities you created with a Google map of the location.
It should look something like this:

.. image:: images/city-list.png

Commit message:

Need to click the Live button first

doc/developer/my-first-app/create-cities.rst, after:

Create Cities
=============

.. |cogicon| image:: images/icon-cog.png

Now let's make use of the new city content type and part component. First we need to add the "City list" part to the "Country" page template.

#. Edit the "Country" page template.
#. Click the “Live” button in the top right corner of the page to activate “Live Edit”-mode.
#. Open the context panel by clicking the cog button |cogicon| in the toolbar.
#. Click and drag a `Part` to the page region below the "country" part. (This may be a bit tricky because the "country" part is small.)
#. Select the "City list" part from the dropdown in the box. You may need to close the context panel to see it.
#. Save and close the tab.

Now we need to create a few City contents below a selected country. (Sample data is available in the table below.)

#. From the content pane, select a country content that you created earlier. It is important that the city content be created under the country.
#. Right-click on the country content and select "New". The "Create content" dialogue will open.
#. Now select "City" from the list of content types.
#. Fill in the city name and location; the population is optional. The location format must be comma separated latitude and longitude
   with decimals. Do not select a page template from the dropdown on the right.
#. Save draft.
#. Create several more city contents below each country content by repeating the previous steps. Sample data is provided in the table below.

+--------------------+----------------+------------------+-----------+
|Country             |City            |Lat,Long          |Population |
+====================+================+==================+===========+
|USA                 |San Francisco   |37.7833,-122.4167 |837,442    |
+                    +----------------+------------------+-----------+
|                    |Las Vegas       |36.1215,-115.1739 |603,488    |
+                    +----------------+------------------+-----------+
|                    |Washington D.C. |38.9047,-77.0164  |658,893    |
+--------------------+----------------+------------------+-----------+
|Norway              |Oslo            |59.9500,10.7500   |618,683    |
+                    +----------------+------------------+-----------+
|                    |Bergen          |60.3894,5.3300    |265,857    |
+                    +----------------+------------------+-----------+
|                    |Trondheim       |63.4297,10.3933   |178,021    |
+--------------------+----------------+------------------+-----------+
|Colombia            |Bogota          |4.5981,-74.0758   |7,000,000  |
+                    +----------------+------------------+-----------+
|                    |Medellin        |6.2308,-75.5906   |2,440,000  |
+                    +----------------+------------------+-----------+
|                    |Barranquilla    |10.9639,-74.7964  |1,885,500  |
+--------------------+----------------+------------------+-----------+


Each country page will now have a list of the cities you created with a Google map of the location.
It should look something like this:

.. image:: images/city-list.png
